The Project Gutenberg eBook of Two Slatterns and a King, by Edna St.
Vincent Millay

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Two Slatterns and a King
       A Moral Interlude

Author: Edna St. Vincent Millay

Release Date: August 10, 2021 [eBook #66029]

Language: English

Produced by: Tim Lindell, David E. Brown, and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was
             produced from images generously made available by The
             Internet Archive/American Libraries.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TWO SLATTERNS AND A
KING ***





  STEWART KIDD MODERN PLAYS
  Edited by Frank Shay


  TWO SLATTERNS AND A KING




_Stewart Kidd Modern Plays_

_Edited by_ FRANK SHAY


To meet the immensely increased demands of the play-reading public and
those interested in the modern drama, Stewart Kidd are issuing under
the general editorship of Frank Shay a series of plays from the pens
of the world’s best contemporary writers. No effort is being spared
to secure the best work available, and the plays are issued in a form
that is at once attractive to readers and suited to the needs of the
performer and producer. _Buffalo Express_: “Each play is of merit. Each
is unlike the other. The group furnishes a striking example of the
realistic trend of the modern drama.”

From time to time special announcements will be printed giving complete
lists of the plays.


SHAM, a Social Satire in One Act. _By Frank G. Tompkins._

  Originally produced by Sam Hume, at the Arts and Crafts Theatre,
  Detroit.

  _San Francisco Bulletin_: “The lines are new and many of them are
  decidedly clever.”

  _Providence Journal_: “An ingenious and merry little one-act play.”


THE SHEPHERD IN THE DISTANCE, a Pantomime in One Act. _By Holland
  Hudson._

  Originally produced by the Washington Square Players.

  _Oakland Tribune_: “A pleasing pantomime of the Ancient East.”


MANSIONS, a Play in One Act. _By Hildegarde Flanner._

  Originally produced by the Indiana Little Theatre Society.

  _Three Arts Magazine_: “This thoughtful and well-written play of
  Characters and Ideals has become a favorite with Little Theatres and
  is now available in print.”


HEARTS TO MEND, a Fantasy in One Act. _By H. A. Overstreet._

  Originally produced by the Fireside Players, White Plains, N. Y.

  _St. Louis Star_: “It is a light whimsy and well carried out.”

  _San Francisco Chronicle_: “No one is likely to hear or read it
  without real and legitimate pleasure.”


SIX WHO PASS WHILE THE LENTILS BOIL. _By Stuart Walker._

  Originally produced by the Portmanteau Players at Christodora House,
  New York City.

  _Brooklyn Eagle_: “Literary without being pedantic, and dramatic
  without being noisy.”


OTHERS TO FOLLOW. _Bound in Art Paper. Each, net, .50_




  TWO SLATTERNS AND
  A KING

  A MORAL INTERLUDE

  By
  EDNA ST. VINCENT MILLAY

  Author of “Aria da Capo”, etc.

  First produced at Vassar College.

  [Illustration]

  CINCINNATI
  STEWART KIDD COMPANY
  PUBLISHERS




  COPYRIGHT, 1921
  STEWART KIDD COMPANY

  _All rights reserved_
  COPYRIGHT IN ENGLAND

No amateur or professional use permitted of “TWO SLATTERNS AND A KING”
without written authorization first obtained from Stewart Kidd Company,
121 East Fifth Street, Cincinnati, O., to whom all applications should
be addressed.




TWO SLATTERNS AND A KING


PERSONS

  THE KING
  CHANCE the VICE
  TIDY the false SLATTERN
  SLUT the true SLATTERN




  THE
  PROLOGUE
  AND THE
  EPILOGUE
  SPOKEN
  BY
  CHANCE




TWO SLATTERNS AND A KING




PROLOGUE

  I am that cunning infidel
  By men called CHANCE,--you know me well.
  It is through me you met your wives;
  Through me your harvest blights or thrives;
  And one and all, through me, to-day
  Hither you came to see the play,
  Which if your favor still you lend,
  As now, so on until the end,
  You shall be taught what way a King
  Though a sublime and awful thing
  And even wise, may come to be
  A laughing-stock,--and all through me!

  (_Exit_)

  (ENTER KING)

KING

  I am the King of all this land:
  I hold a sceptre in my hand;
  Upon my head I wear a crown;
  Everybody stands when I sit down. (_Sits_)

CHANCE (_Appearing to audience; he is invisible throughout the play to
  the other players in it._)

  Excepting me,--please bear in mind
  I sit whenever I feel inclined. (_Sits_)

KING

  Although my lands are wide and long,
  My walls right thick, my armies strong,
  I am not wholly satisfied.

CHANCE

  That is because you have no bride.

KING

  Who speaks?--Come forth and, if you dare,
  Say once again what causes my care!
  Why I am discontent with life!

CHANCE

  It is because you have no wife.

KING

  A woman in my royal house!
  A woman! A wife! A bride! A spouse!
  Bold stranger, this is not the cure,
  For a woman I could never endure!

CHANCE

  Per-CHANCE to-morrow you will find
  You have altered your imperial mind.

  (_Exeunt KING and CHANCE severally_)

  (ENTER TIDY)

TIDY

  I am TIDY, I have been
  All my life both neat and clean.
  From my outside to my in
  Clean am I unto my skin.
  Every day into a bucket
  My hands I dip, my head I duck it;
  And if the water plenty be
  I sometimes wet some more of me.
  This is my kitchen, where you will find
  All things pleasant and to your mind;
  Against the wall in orderly pairs--
  One, two,--one, two,--observe my chairs.
  In the middle of the room my table stands:
  I would not move it for many lands.
  My basins and bowls are all in their places;
  The bottoms of my pots are as clean as your faces.
  My kettle boils so cheerily,
  It is like a friendly voice to me;
  About my work I merrily sing,
  And I brush my hearth with a white duck’s wing.
  Oh, full is every cupboard, sharp is every knife!--
  My bright, sunny kitchen is the pride of my life!

  (_Exit TIDY_)

  (ENTER SLUT)

SLUT

  I am SLUT; I am a slattern,
  You must not take me for your pattern.
  I spend my days in slovenly ease;
  I sleep when I like and I wake when I please.
  My manners, they are indolent;
  In clutter and filth I am quite content.
  Here is my kitchen, where I stir up my messes,
  And wear out my old shoes and soiled silk dresses.
  My table sags beneath the weight
  Of stale food and unwashed plate;
  The cat has tipped the pitcher o’er,--
  The greasy stream drips onto the floor;
  Under the table is a broken cup--
  I am too tired to pick it up.

  (_Exit SLUT_)

  (ENTER KING)

KING

  Now I will no longer tarry
  For I think that I will marry.
  Now the one thing in my life
  Is to marry me a wife.
  But I will not be content
  With a wench that’s indolent,
  Or take a slattern for a spouse,--
  I will go from house to house,
  Unheralded--that there may be
  No cleaning up because of me--
  And that maid whose kitchen’s neatest
  Will I have to be my sweetest.

  (_Exit KING_)

  (CHANCE APPEARS)

CHANCE

  That I am absent do not fear
  For that you have not seen me here,
  For know, I oft invisibly
  Do move among the things you see;
  And to confuse and thwart the King
  Through Slut and Tidy, is a thing
  Dear to my nature,--therefore heed,
  And you shall see a show indeed!

  (_Exit CHANCE_)

  (_Enter TIDY in great disorder_)

TIDY

  Oh, dear, oh, dear, what shall I do?
  Oh, such a plight I never knew!
  Though I arose as is my way
  An hour before the break of day,
  Here it is noon, and nothing done;
  The milk has soured in the sun,
  And the sweet, pretty duck I broiled
  A neighbor’s dog has dragged and spoiled;
  I beat him with my hands and wept!
  Straight through the window then he leapt,
  And through the window after him,
  With scratchéd face and bruiséd limb,
  And on through mire and briar and bog
  Hours and hours I chased that dog,
  Stumbling, uttering awful cries--
  While into my kitchen swarmed the flies!
  I came back at half-past ten!
  Oh, what a sight did greet me then!
  My fair white sheets I hung so fine
  Down in the black muck under the line!
  And out of the oven from cakes ’n’ pies ’n’
  Beautiful tarts the thick smoke risin’!
  I knelt down my tarts to remove,
  And my quince jelly that stood on the stove
  Up did boil, and, as you see,
  Boiled itself all over me!--
  All over the floor, all over the room,--
  Whereat I ran to fetch the broom--
  The broom! The broom--instead of the mop!
  To fetch a broom to wipe up slop!
  And with its handle smashed the clock’s face,
  Getting glass all over the place,
  And knocked the dishes off the shelf,
  And fell to my knees and cut myself,
  And wept and cried and when I would rise
  Could not see for the tears in my eyes;
  So tripped on a chair and, to save a fall,
  Caught at the table, then flat did sprawl,
  Dragging the table down with me,
  And everything on it, as well you may see!
  I cannot live in such a state!
  But where to begin is past my pate!

  (_Enter KING_)

KING

  I am the King of all these lands:
  Down upon your knees and hands.
  Wishing to marry me, I have said
  That the tidiest maiden I would wed
  In all my realm, wherefore I go
  From kitchen to kitchen, that I may know
  And judge for myself what maid is worth
  To sit at my side in feasting and in mirth.
  Untidy Spill-time, it is easy to see
  That my fair bride you never will be.

TIDY

  Oh, great King, hear me when I say
  This has been a most unusual day!
  It is by chance alone you see
  In such a state my kitchen and me!
  I can set us both to rights in a minute!

KING

  In vain! I have set a trap and caught you in it!
  Vain, wench, your lies and your pretense!
  I see what I see and I hie me hence!

  (_Exit KING_)

  (_Exit TIDY, weeping_)

  (ENTER SLUT)

SLUT

  Lest you know me not in this disguise
  I tell you I am SLUT, and I tell you no lies.
  My face and my hands are clean and neat;
  Fresh is my frock, trim are my feet.
  But I assure you you are not wrong
  To think that so tidy I shall not be for long.
  And if the story you wish from me,
  I will tell you how this came to be:
  Dull was the day and tedious my book;
  I saw no pleasure wherever I might look;
  I had done everything that I knew how to do,
  And I could think of nothing new.
  But at last I thought of one
  Thing that I had never done.
  And I said, “I will take a broom,
  And I will sweep this room!
  I will wash this floor!”
  I had never washed it before--
  “All things in order will I arrange,
  Although I hate order, for it will be a change.”
  So here I am, as you can see--
  I and my kitchen as clean as can be.
  But in a room as clean as this
  My bones ache and I find no bliss.
  So watch, and soon it will appear
  Much less orderly and drear.

  (_Enter KING_)

KING

  Down upon your knees and hands!
  I am the King of all these lands.
  Wishing to marry me, I have said
  That the tidiest maiden I would wed
  In all my realms, wherefore I go
  From kitchen to kitchen that I may know--
  Yet stay! This kitchen is so tidy,
  I think that you must be my bridey!
  As far and wide as I have been
  So neat a kitchen I have not seen;
  Therefore I say you are my wife,
  For the remainder of your life.

SLUT (_aside_)

  To point him out his error at first I intended,
  But least said is soonest mended.

  (_Exeunt KING with SLUT_)

  (_Enter TIDY_)

TIDY

  Now once again with me
  All is as it is wont to be.
  Now once again you see me stand
  The tidiest lady in the land.
  If the King should see me now
  He would tell a different tale, I trow.

  (_Enter KING_)

KING

  Oh, lovely lady, who are you,
  That I am a talking to?

TIDY

  She am I whom you did scorn
  This very day at morn.

KING

  It may not be as you have said,
  For you would I gladly wed!

TIDY

  I thank you for the favor, but
  They tell me you have married SLUT!

KING

  Oh, cock’s bones! And strike me dead!
  Is it a Slut that I have wed?

  (_Enter SLUT dressed as at first_)

SLUT

  So here you dally whilst I sit at home!
  Never any more abroad shall you roam,
  But sit at home with me for the rest of your life,
  For I am your lawful wedded wife!

KING

  Oh, woe is me, what a life will be mine!

SLUT

  It is too late now to repine:
  Home with me you come for the rest of your life,
  For SLUT is your lawful wedded wife!

  (_Exit SLUT with KING_)

TIDY

  A slattern is a fearful sight,--ah, me!
  What pleasure it gives so tidy to be!

  (_Exit TIDY_)

EPILOGUE

  Now that the play is at an end,
  By CHANCE _you_ have enjoyed it, friend;
  By CHANCE to _you_ his sweet was gall;
  By CHANCE _you_ slumbered through it all.
  Howe’er it be, it was by CHANCE
  The KING was led so merry a dance,
  By CHANCE that TIDY met disgrace,
  By CHANCE alone SLUT washed her face;
  From morn to eve the whole day long
  It was by CHANCE that things went wrong.
  Wherefore, good friends, t’ escape derision,
  Be not o’er hasty in your decision,
  For he who heedeth not this rule
  BY CHANCE HE WILL BE CALLED A FOOL!




TRANSCRIBER’S NOTE:


  Italicized or underlined text is surrounded by underscores: _italics_.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TWO SLATTERNS AND A KING ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
